The objective of the game is to continuously hit notes when they reach the note activators near the bottom of the screen.  The red activators correspond to Player 1 and are used with the W, A, & S keys. The blue activators correspond to Player 2 and are used with the Keypad 4, Keypad 5, & Keypad 6 keys. These keys will only function when notes are positioned on the activators. Failure of a player to hit a note as it is passing an activator results in a penalty of health lost, with Player 1’s total remaining health being red and Player 2’s total remaining health being blue. 

Both players are also given switches that toggle between the game modes of Rock, Paper, & Scissors, controlled by Q for Player 1 and Keypad 7 for Player 2. Each game mode provides different obstacles that players must contend with in addition to the main goal of hitting the notes. The Rock mode has a rock falling every 3 seconds in the middle activator of the player who is on the mode, the Paper mode has the vertical screen space above the player’s activators blocked from view, and the Scissors mode has the activators of the player blocked from view.  

The game follows standard Rock, Paper, Scissors rules in terms of health loss. For instance, if Player 1 is on Rock and Player 2 is on Paper, Player 1 missing a note would result in double the amount of health lost than if both were players were on the same mode. Likewise, Player 2 missing a note would result in half the amount of health lost.

Initially, the players’ three activators each corresponded to Rock, Paper, and Scissors, respectively. The goal was to have effects being based on the activators the players were hitting, such as Player 1 hitting a Rock activator and Player 2 hitting a Paper activator at the same time resulting in damage to Player 1. However, said approach was relatively simplistic and did little to satisfy the general requirements of the assignment. The current system allows for added difficulty in all three modes, achieved by the three obstacles.
 A method in which each game mode would cause the player to perform a different minigame was also considered, but these mini-games would take away from the flow of the main rhythm game, thus being a jarring experience for players. 

Given more time, each player could be given a unique ability that they could re-activate after a set period of cooldown time, allowing them to perform some sort of defensive or offensive action. This could range from adding extra notes that the enemy player must hit or clearing all notes on their side of the screen. 
Another long-term possibility would be giving players the ability to use their own custom music and map out their own note patterns to play. 

The project has taught creativity given design contraints in the ability to expand an idea into something quite different to the source material of Spacewar!, even with the two games sharing the same general outlines. It also taught how mechanics can be implemented in a variety of ways, which relies on the programmer to understand how to connect ideas together to form a cohesive experience. Lastly, it taught that designing for a two-player game is quite different than a one-player game, as the developer must always make sure that both players can play at the same skill level in that one is not given an inherent advantage over another. 
